hi this is it big with USA today i'm
here with tom carlo from google we're at
a lolly android lollipop event what is
lollipop so lollipop is this year's
release of android it's Android 5.0
lollipop it's the new release that's
come out and we have a number of new
devices that feature it that we're
showing off today I know you've got one
here this is the new Nexus 6 phone what
is lollipop bringing that KitKat the
prior version does not have any wonder
that look I know there's a lot of new
stuff in there but talk talk about a few
of the features that consumers will
notice so overall lollipops one of the
largest releases we have ever done how
many features well we've been looking at
in terms of the number of new features
available for developers to capitalize
on and it's that counts in the thousands
on this release in terms of release
features for consumers the most
prominent features of the changes the
lock screen when you open up the phone
and changes the notifications that
arrive when you're using the phone and
you know you have incoming messages or
phone calls other apps send you
notifications now when you talk about
the lock screen changes like what what's
different well if I can show you here on
the lockscreen incoming notifications
are now displayed on the lock screen and
a user can interact directly with those
notifications without unlocking their
device now that's up to user whether or
not they want this stuff shown on the
lock screen or they want it hidden but
we found that having the notification in
the lock screen like that is enormously
convenient because one of the biggest
reasons you pull your phone out of your
pocket during the day is to see why it
just beeped or it just buzzed and you
know what's what's happened and what
messages come in and decide whether or
not you want to interact with the phone
ok gimme gimme a feature that maybe is
not obvious but you know the real tip
for somebody who wants to they wouldn't
necessarily notice it right away sure so
one feature is that sometimes you want
to give your phone to somebody else
because they want to look up something
on the web or they want to make a phone
call or something like that and in the
past with KitKat and other releases
you'd have to unlock the phone hand it
to them and they'd essentially have
access to everything that you have
inside your phone on lollipop on the
Nexus 6 you can pull down from the top
of the screen
and you can add a guest user and adding
a guest user gives them access to the
connectivity and dialer of your phone
but not access to all of your text
messages and photos and other things you
have within the phone so it's a nice
secure way to share your phone with
somebody else okay now obviously the
Nexus phones have lollipop when is
lollipop come to other Android devices
so will be seen the OEM drilling
lollipop out to the existing devices
over the course the rest of the Paul and
you know the time when it arrives in a
particular phone is up to each
individual manufacturer right is there
any expectation no and again I know it's
up to the manufacturers but that it
would happen faster than in the past or
is the expectation it will be the same
so this year we released a preview at
i/o so we've released a version of the
operating system for OEMs and developers
to look at earlier in the year you know
those several months ago in late June
and so we do expect that that will
accelerate the process of OEMs rolling
out the update because essentially
they've had a chance to look at it
earlier than they did in previous years
okay let's leave the folks with one last
tip any any I know thousands of features
pick one there's lots of great tips but
one of the great things on the new
version of Android is priority mode so
in the past you could only say you know
I want my phone to ring out I want it to
vibrate I want it to be quiet now you
can say don't bother me as much because
i'm at dinner or i'm in a meeting you
can go into the volume controls press
priority and turn that on and then you
can say I'd like that to stay on per se
one hour and so my dinners over and
don't bother me and once you've set that
and you've configured it the phone will
ring potentially or your appointment
message will come through but if you
know a game is sending a notification
your phone won't be beeping in the
middle of dinner so I think that's one
of the great features of lollipop great
Tom from google I made baked from USA
Today